# V1alpha1ServingRuntimeSpec

ServingRuntimeSpec defines the desired state of ServingRuntime. This spec is currently provisional and are subject to change as details regarding single-model serving and multi-model serving are hammered out.
## Properties
Name | Type | Description | Notes
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
**affinity** | [**V1Affinity**](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python/blob/master/kubernetes/docs/V1Affinity.md) |  | [optional] 
**built_in_adapter** | [**V1alpha1BuiltInAdapter**](V1alpha1BuiltInAdapter.md) |  | [optional] 
**containers** | [**list[V1Container]**](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python/blob/master/kubernetes/docs/V1Container.md) | List of containers belonging to the pod. Containers cannot currently be added or removed. There must be at least one container in a Pod. Cannot be updated. | 
**disabled** | **bool** | Set to true to disable use of this runtime | [optional] 
**grpc_data_endpoint** | **str** | Grpc endpoint for inferencing | [optional] 
**grpc_endpoint** | **str** | Grpc endpoint for internal model-management (implementing mmesh.ModelRuntime gRPC service) Assumed to be single-model runtime if omitted | [optional] 
**http_data_endpoint** | **str** | HTTP endpoint for inferencing | [optional] 
**multi_model** | **bool** | Whether this ServingRuntime is intended for multi-model usage or not. | [optional] 
**node_selector** | **dict(str, str)** | NodeSelector is a selector which must be true for the pod to fit on a node. Selector which must match a node&#39;s labels for the pod to be scheduled on that node. More info: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/assign-pod-node/ | [optional] 
**protocol_versions** | **list[str]** | Supported protocol versions (i.e. v1 or v2 or grpc-v1 or grpc-v2) | [optional] 
**replicas** | **int** | Configure the number of replicas in the Deployment generated by this ServingRuntime If specified, this overrides the podsPerRuntime configuration value | [optional] 
**storage_helper** | [**V1alpha1StorageHelper**](V1alpha1StorageHelper.md) |  | [optional] 
**supported_model_formats** | [**list[V1alpha1SupportedModelFormat]**](V1alpha1SupportedModelFormat.md) | Model formats and version supported by this runtime | [optional] 
**tolerations** | [**list[V1Toleration]**](https://github.com/kubernetes-client/python/blob/master/kubernetes/docs/V1Toleration.md) | If specified, the pod&#39;s tolerations. | [optional] 

[[Back to Model list]](../README.md#documentation-for-models) [[Back to API list]](../README.md#documentation-for-api-endpoints) [[Back to README]](../README.md)


